title: Sematext Enterprise Licensing
description: Licensing details for our on-premises infrastructure & application performance monitoring, and log management & analytics tools, all in one private solution for busines metrics, traces, logs, alerts, and events


## How do I get a new license

The SematextApps VM has an initial trial license that will expire in 30
days. Â When the trial license or the real license expires, you will not
be able log into the Web UI. To get a new license, please <a href="https://sematext.com/contact/">contact Sematext</a>.

## License expiry

All Sematext on-premises licenses are limited by their expiry date. As
expiry date approaches (and passes), license holders and owner of
default on-premises account will be notified by email.

After the license expires, you will be able to continue using
applications only for a few more days, so <a href="https://sematext.com/contact/">contact Sematext</a> early about the new license to avoid any service interruptions.

## How do SPM license limits work

SPM licenses have additional limit on concurrent number of
"server-apps". This "server-apps" is a combination of SPM App token and
server where SPM monitor client is installed. For example, if you have 4
servers, and on each of them you've installed 3 SPM App tokens, that is
counted as 12 server-apps (regardless of whether those servers use same
or different SPM App tokens).

If during the day your number of server-apps goes over the limit defined
by license, you will be notified by email and by Notification displayed
at the top of SPM UI. You will have until the end of the day (counted by
UTC timezone) to reduce the number of server-apps below the license
limit. If reduction doesn't happen until the end of the day, that day
will be counted as "over the limit" incident.

You are allowed to have a maximum of 4 such incidents over the trailing
30 days window. Once you have 5 or more such incidents over the last 30
days (check is done each day at 02:00 AM UTC), read-access to data will
be blocked. This means that performance metrics will continue to be
collected by SPM, but until the number of "over the limit" incidents
falls back below 5 or you get a fresh license with higher limits, you
will be unable to view data in charts.

## How do Logsene license limits work

Logsene licenses have additional limit on the amount of log data per
day. The limit is expressed in MB, GB, TB... per day, and is compared
with the total amount of log data used by all your Logsene Apps
combined.

If during the day your amount of data goes over the license limit, you
will be notified by email and by Notification displayed at the top of
Logsene UI. You will have time until the end of the day (counted by UTC
timezone) to reduce the amount of logs below the limit (e.g. by deleting
some data manually). If reduction doesn't happen until the end of the
day, that day will be counted as "over the limit" incident.

You are allowed to have a maximum of 4 such incidents over the trailing
30 days window. Once you hit 5 or more such incidents over the last 30
days (check is done each day at 02:00 AM UTC), read-access to data will
be blocked. This means that logs data will continue to be accepted by
Logsene, but until the number of "over the limit" incidents falls back
below 5 or you get a fresh license with higher limits, you will be
unable to view data in charts.
